- [Instructor] Now that we've discussed
some of the main practices involved with GitOps,
let's see them in action.
To do that, we'll establish an end-to-end GitOps workflow
that combines the GitOps principles
with the practices that we discussed in this chapter.
The workflow uses GitHub, CircleCI, Docker Hub, Flux,
and Azure Arc.
It's pretty complex, so we'll break it into pieces.
First, we'll focus on the practice
of using container platforms
by standing up a small K3s cluster
that we'll manage with Azure Arc.
Azure Arc isn't necessary for our container platforms,
but it's a newer feature in Azure
that has some support for GitOps built in,
so it's worth exploring.
So let's start on my local workstation
where I've installed Docker and K3s.
K3s is a small Kubernetes distribution
that's provided by Rancher.
It comes with the command line wrapper K3d.
We can use K3d to quickly stand up a cluster
on our local workstation.
So here, I'm telling K3d
to create a cluster named arccluster.
I'll go ahead and execute that command
and the cluster will begin to provision on my machine.
That's how quickly you can get up and running
locally with Kubernetes.
Now let's head over to Azure.
Within Azure, we're going to stand up
and configure Azure Arc.
Now, you'll need an Azure account for this.
So if you don't have one,
just click on this green button to get a free trial.
I'm going to head into the portal and within the portal,
we can do a global search for Arc
and you'll see that Azure Arc
appears as the first selection.
Go ahead and click on it
and this takes us to the starting page for Azure Arc.
Now, Azure Arc is used to manage resources
remotely from Azure,
so things like our local K3s cluster
or maybe a cluster over in GCP or AWS
can be managed using Azure Arc.
The cluster doesn't need to be in Azure,
but it can be managed from there.
Now, because we're interested
in managing existing infrastructure,
I'll select this first option.
I'll go ahead and hit Add
and then we have a Kubernetes cluster,
so I'm going to select this option in the middle.
Now, before we can manage that cluster with Arc,
we need some software installed on our workstation.
The softwares listed here, I've already installed it.
You can work through the instructions here
to install Azure CLI, some extensions for it, and Helm.
Once you've completed those instructions,
go ahead and click on Cluster Details to continue.
Now we need to provide some additional information
about the resource we want to create,
and that starts with the resource group.
I'm just going to name the resource group arc-cluster-rg
and then I'll go ahead and hit OK
and then we need to provide a name for the cluster in Azure.
I'll just call this the k3d-local-cluster.
And you can leave the region set
to whatever Azure has selected.
Once that's all in place, go ahead, hit Next.
This takes us to the tags.
We don't need any of those,
so I'm going to continue to the run script.
You'll notice that Azure provides us with a script
to get our local Kubernetes cluster
synced up with Azure Arc.
So it's going to create that resource group
and then it uses one of the extensions we installed
to make the sync occur.
I'm going to go ahead and copy the last three commands
in the script.
I've already logged into Azure via the Azure CLI,
so I don't need that first command.
If you haven't logged into Azure,
you'll want to copy the first one.
All right, so once that's copied,
then we're going to navigate back to a terminal.
I'll go ahead and clear it.
And then from here, we can paste the commands
and that's going to connect our local K3s cluster
to Azure Arc.
So the connection appears to be completed.
Let's navigate over to Azure to verify that.
To do that, just click on the Verification button
at the bottom of your screen
and we'll get a confirmation that our local K3d cluster
has successfully been connected to Azure Arc.
Let's go take a quick look at the cluster
and we can see some additional information about it.
So by embracing containers,
we start to head down that cloud native path
that has other practices that tie in so nicely with GitOps.
Now that we have our cluster setup,
we're going to move on and take a look
at some of the next practices in that mix.